Add blog post for go.opentelemetry.io switch (#5087)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2024/go-opentelemetry-io.md

---
title: Planned Migration for go.opentelemetry.io
linkTitle: Planned migration for go.opentelemetry.io
date: 2024-08-23

> author: >-

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: Yahn
author: >-
```

  [Mike Dame](https://github.com/damemi) (Google),
# canonical_url: http://somewhere.else/ # TODO: if this blog post has been posted somewhere else already, uncomment & provide the canonical URL here.
body_class: otel-with-contributions-from # TODO: remove this line if there are no secondary contributing authors
issue: 5086
sig: Go SIG
---

With contributions from Tyler Yahn and Austin Parker.

## TL;DR

The app that serves requests to [go.opentelemetry.io] will be migrating to a new
host on September 5, 2024 at approximately 11:00AM Eastern Time. There are no
changes required from you. We are making this announcement because it is

> possible, but unlikely, that there may be downtime during this transition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
possible, but unlikely, that there might be downtime during this transition.
```

## Details

OpenTelemetry is planning to migrate the application that serves all requests
for `go.opentelemetry.io` to a new host project on September 5, 2024. On this
date, the current DNS entries for `go.opentelemetry.io` will be updated to point
to the new host.

This should be a seamless transition, but there is the possibility of downtime
during this time. The OpenTelemetry engineers will be actively monitoring the
transition to minimize the risk.

> ### Affected Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Affected resources
```

In the unlikely event of issues, the scope of these planned changes will affect
Go package downloads for the following domains:

- `go.opentelemetry.io/auto`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/build-tools`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/collector-contrib`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/collector`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/contrib`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/otel`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/proto`

Note that this includes users of any of the following artifacts: the
OpenTelemetry Go language libraries (including Contrib), the OpenTelemetry Go
Auto-Instrumentation libraries, the OpenTelemetry Collector libraries (including
Contrib), and the OpenTelemetry Collector Builder.

## What you need to do

**There is no action required from you.** All imports using
`go.opentelemetry.io` (and submodule paths, for example
`go.opentelemetry.io/otel`) will continue to work. There are no plans to change
this.

> ## What you may notice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What you might notice
```

There is the possibility of the [go.opentelemetry.io] domain experiencing

> downtime during this transition. If this happens, you may see projects that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
downtime during this transition. If this happens, you might see projects that
```

---
title: Planned Migration for go.opentelemetry.io

> linkTitle: Planned migration for go.opentelemetry.io

Reviewer 2: Don't repeat the title when linkTitle is identical.

```suggestion
```

date: 2024-08-23
cSpell:ignore: Yahn

> author: >-
>   [Mike Dame](https://github.com/damemi) (Google),

Reviewer 2: Let's drop the unnecessary trailing comma and compact it a bit:

```suggestion
author: '[Mike Dame](https://github.com/damemi) (Google)'
```

cSpell:ignore: vanityurls Yahn
---

With contributions from Tyler Yahn and Austin Parker.

## TL;DR

The app that serves requests to [go.opentelemetry.io] will be migrating to a new

> host on September 5, 2024 at approximately 11:00AM Eastern Time. **There are no

Reviewer 3: Nit, but IMHO, the standard timezone for communications should be GMT.

> # canonical_url: http://somewhere.else/ # TODO: if this blog post has been posted somewhere else already, uncomment & provide the canonical URL here.
> body_class: otel-with-contributions-from # TODO: remove this line if there are no secondary contributing authors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
body_class: otel-with-contributions-from
```

The app that serves requests to [go.opentelemetry.io] will be migrating to a new

> host on September 5, 2024 at approximately 11:00AM Eastern Time. There are no
> changes required from you. We are making this announcement because it is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
host on September 5, 2024 at approximately 11:00AM Eastern Time. **There are no
changes required from you**. We are making this announcement because it is
```

## Details

OpenTelemetry is planning to migrate the application that serves all requests
for `go.opentelemetry.io` to a new host project on September 9, 2024. On this
date, the current DNS entries for `go.opentelemetry.io` will be updated to point
to the new host.

This should be a seamless transition, but there is the possibility of downtime
during this time. The OpenTelemetry engineers will be actively monitoring the
transition to minimize the risk.

### Affected Resources

In the unlikely event of issues, the scope of these planned changes will affect
Go package downloads for the following domains:

- `go.opentelemetry.io/auto`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/build-tools`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/collector-contrib`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/collector`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/contrib`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/otel`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/proto`

> - `go.opentelemetry.io/sdk`

Reviewer 4: My mistake.

```suggestion
```

Note that this includes users of any of the following artifacts: the
OpenTelemetry Go language libraries (including Contrib), the OpenTelemetry Go
Auto-Instrumentation libraries, the OpenTelemetry Collector libraries (including

> Contrib), and the OpenTelemetry Collector Builder.

Reviewer 2: How about making the "artifacts" list a bulleted list too? It would be easier to read that way.

Author: done

## What you need to do

**There is no action required from you.** All imports using
`go.opentelemetry.io` (and submodule paths, for example
`go.opentelemetry.io/otel`) will continue to work. There are no plans to change
this.

## What you might notice

There is the possibility of the [go.opentelemetry.io] domain experiencing
downtime during this transition. If this happens, you might see projects that
import `go.opentelemetry.io` modules failing to compile.

This could occur due to several factors, including delays in DNS propagation or
misconfiguration. We will have multiple maintainers working synchronously during
this time to minimize any downtime that occurs.

If you experience any issues following this transition, please reach out on

> [Slack #otel-go](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01NPAXACKT) or open an
> issue on GitHub at
> [https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-vanityurls](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-vanityurls).

Reviewer 2: If you're linking to the repo, you might as well link to the "new issue" action. E.g.

```suggestion
[Slack #otel-go](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01NPAXACKT) or [create an
issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-vanityurls/issues/new) over
[opentelemetry-go-vanityurls](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-vanityurls).
```

---
title: Planned Migration for go.opentelemetry.io
linkTitle: Planned migration for go.opentelemetry.io
date: 2024-08-22
author: >-
  [Mike Dame](https://github.com/damemi) (Google),
draft: true # TODO: remove this line once your post is ready to be published
# canonical_url: http://somewhere.else/ # TODO: if this blog post has been posted somewhere else already, uncomment & provide the canonical URL here.
body_class: otel-with-contributions-from # TODO: remove this line if there are no secondary contributing authors
issue: 5086
sig: Go SIG
---

With contributions from Tyler Yahn and Austin Parker.

## TL;DR

The app that serves requests to [go.opentelemetry.io] will be migrating to a new

> host on September 9, 2024. There are no changes required from you. We are making

Reviewer 3: Should this include an approximate time? A date is very vague, especially with timezone differences.

Author: Added

to the new host.

This should be a seamless transition, but there is the possibility of downtime
during this time. The OpenTelemetry engineers will be actively monitoring the
transition to minimize the risk.

### Affected Resources

In the unlikely event of issues, the scope of these planned changes will affect
Go package downloads for the following domains:

- `go.opentelemetry.io/auto`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/build-tools`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/collector-contrib`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/collector`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/contrib`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/otel`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/proto`
- `go.opentelemetry.io/sdk`

Note that this includes users of any of the following artifacts: the
OpenTelemetry Go language libraries (including Contrib), the OpenTelemetry Go
Auto-Instrumentation libraries, the OpenTelemetry Collector libraries (including
Contrib), and the OpenTelemetry Collector Builder.

## What you need to do

**There is no action required from you.** All imports using
`go.opentelemetry.io` (and submodule paths, for example
`go.opentelemetry.io/otel`) will continue to work. There are no plans to change
this.

## What you may notice

> There is the possibility of the [go.opentelemtry.io] domain experiencing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is the possibility of the [go.opentelemetry.io] domain experiencing
```
